feat: adds first cut at tutorial #3: Your first environment on AWS (#537)
cloudposse/docs: content/tutorials/first-aws-environment.md

  * `uw2-dev.yaml`: Our dev environment hosted in us-west-2.
  * `uw2-prod.yaml`: Our prod environment hosted in the same region.
  * `ue2-root.yaml`: Our global resources hosted in us-east-2.
* We've also got a `bin/uniquify.sh` file that we'll discuss shortly.

Cool, let's jump into our next step and actually do something with this small project.

### 2. Build and generate our `tfstate-backend` for this project

In our last tutorial, we showed `atmos` being used to apply some fairly simple terraform projects that didn't actually create any resources in the cloud. For this tutorial however, we're going to be creating a simple static site in AWS and as part of that we should be sure to follow one of the most important best practices in terraform: **Use remote state**. Luckily, `atmos` and stacks make that easy on us by providing a simple abstraction layer to configure all our terraform components with a single backend config. In this example we'll be using the S3 backend and [the tfstate-backend component](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/tree/master/modules/tfstate-backend) to automate the resources we need for that backend, so let's dive into that:

> 1. To start off, we need to do something funky that you wouldn't need to do in a normal project setting: We need to create unique names for our project since we're dealing with S3 buckets and their names are global across all AWS accounts. To make that easy on you, we've included `bin/uniquify.sh` which was mentioned previously. This small script generates some random strings and utilizes [`yq`](https://mikefarah.gitbook.io/yq/commands/evaluate) to update some of our stack files to include random names. Let's run that now:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To start off, we need to do something funky to generate unique resource names. This is because this tutorial used by many people, so it's not something a normal project setting would need. That's because this tutorial is creating S3 buckets and their names need to be globally unique across all AWS accounts. To make that easy on you, we've included a little helper script (`bin/uniquify.sh`) which was mentioned previously. This small script generates some random strings and utilizes [`yq`](https://mikefarah.gitbook.io/yq/commands/evaluate) to update some of our stack files to include random names. Let's run that now:
```

---
title: "Your first environment on AWS"
description: "Get your first AWS environment deployed using Atmos, Stacks, and Vendir"
weight: 3
---

## Intro

Up until now, our tutorial content has been been primarily using contrived examples to enable folks to get up to speed with some of the more fundamental SweetOps concepts and tools. This tutorial will be a bit different in that we'll actually get something deployed to your AWS account so you can see how SweetOps works in a more concrete way.

## Prerequisites

### System Requirements

To accomplish this tutorial, you'll need the following:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- An AWS test account and credentials for that account added to `aws-vault` so they're ready to be used in Geodesic.

>   - We recommend Administrator privileges to make everything easy, but you can likely get away with credentials that only allow S3, ClodFront, and DynamoDB access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - We recommend Administrator privileges to make everything easy, but you can likely get away with credentials that only allow S3, CloudFront, and DynamoDB access.
```

  - If you haven't set this up before, check out [the Geodesic how-to on authenticating with aws-vault]({{< relref "howto/geodesic/authenticate-with-aws-vault.md" >}}).
  - We'll refer to your `aws-vault` profile through out this tutorial as `$YOUR_PROFILE`. When you see that, be sure to replace with whatever name you added to `aws-vault`.

### Understanding

> Prior to starting this tutorial, you should be sure you understand [our various concepts and terminology]({{< relref "fundamentals/concepts.md" >}}) and have gone through our [Getting started with Geodesic]({{< relref "tutorials/geodesic-getting-started.md" >}}) and [Getting started with Atmos tutorial]({{< relref "tutorials/atmos-getting-started.md" >}}) because we'll be building upon the knowledge in both of those tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to starting this tutorial, you should be sure that you understand [our various concepts and terminology]({{< relref "fundamentals/concepts.md" >}}) and have gone through our [Getting started with Geodesic]({{< relref "tutorials/geodesic-getting-started.md" >}}) and [Getting started with Atmos tutorial]({{< relref "tutorials/atmos-getting-started.md" >}}) because we'll be building upon the knowledge in both of those tutorials.
```

## Tutorial

### 1. Clone the tutorials repository + Run the `tutorials` image

As part of this tutorial (and others in our tutorial series), we'll be utilizing [our tutorials repository](https://github.com/cloudposse/tutorials). This repository includes code and relevant materials for you to use alongside this tutorial walk through.

Let's clone it to your local machine and `cd` into it:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:cloudposse/tutorials.git

cd tutorials
```

> Now that we've got our code, we're going to want to interact with it using our standard set of tools. Following the SweetOps methodology, we're going to so via a Docker image built on top of Geodesic. This entire `tutorials` repository is actually Dockerized to make that part easy, so let's build and run our `cloudposse/tutorials` image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've got our code, we're going to want to interact with it using our standard set of tools. Following the SweetOps methodology, we're going to do so using a docker toolbox, which is a Docker image built on top of Geodesic. This entire `tutorials` repository is actually Dockerized to make that part easy, so let's build and run our `cloudposse/tutorials` image:
```

```bash
# Geodesic is the base image for our tutorials image and it isn't tiny by any means
# Go grab a coffee while you wait ☕️

> make build

Reviewer: Make init?

Author: Solid catch 👍

Author: Fixed.

make run
```

This will build the `tutorials` image locally on your machine and then runs it while also mounting the various tutorial folders so you can edit them on your host machine or in the container and the changes will propogate either direction.

![Tutorial Shell](/assets/tutorials-3-tutorials-shell.png)

> Now that we're running in our container, let's get into our specific tutorial:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we're running inside of our container, let's get into our specific tutorial:
```

```bash
cd /tutorials/03-first-aws-environment
```

This `03-first-aws-environment/` directory that you're now in should be looking a little bit familiar from our first tutorial:

* We've got a `components/` directory which holds terraform components that we're looking to `apply` to our AWS Account.
* We've got a `stacks/` directory which holds the declarative descriptions of 3 environments:
  * `uw2-dev.yaml`: Our dev environment hosted in us-west-2.
  * `uw2-prod.yaml`: Our prod environment hosted in the same region.
  * `ue2-root.yaml`: Our global resources hosted in us-east-2.

> * We've also got a `bin/unquify.sh` file that we'll discuss shortly.

Reviewer: WHat is `unquify` in reference to? I don't it =)

Author: Haha will fix -- Thanks for the catch.

Author: Fixed.

```

This will prompt you with the following:

```txt
Do you want to migrate all workspaces to "s3"?
Both the existing "local" backend and the newly configured "s3" backend
support workspaces. When migrating between backends, Terraform will copy
all workspaces (with the same names). THIS WILL OVERWRITE any conflicting
states in the destination.

Terraform initialization doesn't currently migrate only select workspaces.
If you want to migrate a select number of workspaces, you must manually
pull and push those states.

If you answer "yes", Terraform will migrate all states. If you answer
"no", Terraform will abort.

Enter a value:
```

Enter "yes" and this will migrate our local state to our S3 backend. Success!

5. Now that we've migrated our single "chicken or the egg" component, we'll want to generate the `backend.tf.json` file for our other components as well considering we'll want them to use the S3 backend too. Luckily for us, there is only one, simple component as part of this tutorial: `components/terraform/static-site`. Let's go ahead and generate the backend config for that component:

```bash
atmos terraform backend generate component static-site --stack uw2-dev
```

> Exactly the same as for our `tfstate-backend` component, our `atmos` `backend generate` command will put a `backend.tf.json` file in our `components/terraform/static-site/` directory so that component will always utilize the correct backend. If this were a real project that we were working on then we'd actually check those files into git so that our backend configuration would persist going forward, but since this is a tutorial we'll skip that step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exactly the same as for our `tfstate-backend` component, our `atmos` `backend generate` command will put a `backend.tf.json` file in our `components/terraform/static-site/` directory so that component will always utilize the correct backend. If this were a real project that we were working on and practicing GitOps, then we'd actually check those files into git so that our backend configuration would persist going forward, but since this is a tutorial we'll skip that step.
```

### 3. Apply our Static Site

Next, let's move onto applying our `static-site` component to actually build something real on AWS. Well that's pretty simple actually:

```bash

> aws-vault exec $YOUR_PROFILE -- atmos terraform deploy static-site --stack uw2-dev

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aws-vault exec $YOUR_PROFILE -- atmos terraform deploy static-site --stack uw2-dev
```

What are your thoughts on just instructing them to use this as step one? then we can drop it from all the commands
```
aws-vault exec $YOUR_PROFILE -- bash
```

Author: That sounds good to me -- I wanted to use `assume-role` or other methods, but it doesn't seem they're working as well as we would like, so this is a good alternative 👍

Author: Updated.

![Static Site Example Image](/assets/tutorial-3-static-site.png)

As you can see, this deploys our static site for our `dev` environment, but not our `prod` environment. This tutorial won't cover deploying the `prod` environment, but feel free to play around with the variables if you would like to mess around with it!

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, we've given you a bit more of taste of what it looks like to work on a real project while following the SweetOps methodology:

1. We've seen real world components: `tfstate-backend` and `static-site`. These are sharable root modules that you didn't need to configure or touch to get up and running, you just need to supply the configuration. We have a whole library of components (which `tfstate-backend` is one of) over at [`cloudposse/terraform-aws-components`](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components).
1. We utilized `atmos` to deploy our terraform state backend for our various components and then also generate the `backend.tf.json` files to ensure our components are properly configured from a central configuration in our `stacks/` directory.

> 1. You now have an example of what it looks like to organize stack configurations **for different environments and regions**. This is immensely important and is why SweetOps is so powerful: Our stacks centrally define our environments, where they're deployed, and how they're configured. In a normal engineering ecosystem that information is typically only ever in a few senior engineers heads, but with stacks we get it for free as we declare it as code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You now have an example of what it looks like to organize stack configurations **for different environments and regions**. This is immensely important and is why SweetOps is so powerful: Our stacks centrally define our environments, where they're deployed, and how they're configured; the components are completely agnostic to their environment and only responsible for business logic. This separation is critical to building reusable, composable infrastructure. Not to mention, we ensure that critical configurations are declared as code and not just committed to the memory of a few senior engineers.
```

Author: Thanks for the re-write -- That previous sentence was just bad.

With this knowledge, you're now ready to actually build projects on AWS using the SweetOps methodology!

> 

Reviewer: is all this whitespace deliberate?

Author: No I'll remove.

Author: Fixed.
